Welcome back, my friend.
Here we are back in our index file, we set the project up in our last session there.
We're going to do is we're going to start coding up some HTML.
So basically, we're going to create kind of the structure, the HTML, and we're gonna add a whole
bunch of classes that are based on bootstrap.
And for any of you who are new to bootstrap or rather, let me try that again.
For any of you who have used bootstrap before, you're probably going to recognize that there's a lot
of different classes that bootstrap uses now, more utility based, and it's kind of interesting.
So we'll we'll we'll jump in.
Let's start off by making the body tag of the class of blog.
Why?
Because we're going to make the index for now in our static HTML file, the blog page, the blog index.
We're going to have a div and we're going to give that the idea of.
Not the idea, the idea of top navigation, so we're going to build the mark up for the top navigation.
We need a div with the class of container that has a bootstrap class container gives you a container
that wraps everything within its parameters.
So whether it's 960 or 11, whatever, 12, whatever, you know, 768 kind of all the different screen
sizes inside the container, we're going to give another div.
We're going to give a div class of row.
It's a bootstrap convention.
We're going to have a row here and we're going to justify content end now.
If you want to know what any of these classes mean, here's the best way of doing it.
So I'm not going to make this course all about digging into the documentation of every single class,
because how lame would that be?
All you got to do if you're like, Hey, what's this class do?
This is what any good developer and web designer should do is just look it up.
So here in the bootstrap documentation, you can just like, type it in, justify content and click
it.
Here you go to justify content utilities.
It's basically based on Flexbox.
So what it's doing is it's literally doing justify content end.
And what that does is you can see here in the second example, one to justify content, and it's taking
the items and popping them over to the left, using Flexbox, using flex styles.
And so that's all we're doing is instead of writing out all of the Flex, see, Flexbox ceased to make
this happen.
We just have to add a utility class called Justify Content End.
So here we go.
We want inner navigation to be on the far right side because that's pretty standard.
Convention nowadays justify content end, so that adds a bunch of styles to make it do that properly.
And of course, it's all responsive and everything like that.
So we've got that built in.
We're going to have another div here.
It's going to have the class call Dash MD four Medium Dash six.
So that means at the medium screen size, that's when it breaks to stack it.
But up into the medium screen size for medium, large, extra large and so on.
It's going to be it's going to be a medium six, which means half because we're going off of the 12
column grid here standard convention.
So six is half a 12.
So this is kind of, you know, two column or the second column, I think you know what I'm saying.
So now let's we're going to have a nav here.
I'm going to give that the class name.
He's called editors in the auto fill in stuff for you, sometimes it's helpful, and other times it's
just a big pain in the rear end.
OK, now class main dash menu is a bootstrap class and we're going to have a ul unordered list.
This is going to have a series of classes.
OK, so we're going to have top dash menu, OK?
And that is again BoostCharge class.
Now, obviously, you're very welcome to just go to the end result in the beat UAW final.
Click on the index file and just like copy everything.
But I kind of just want to write it out for you so you can see where we're adding and maybe what it
does.
That's just what we're going to do.
Flex Dash Flex, that is Display Flex.
So these are utility classes.
So simply like D Flex as a bootstrap class bootstrap utility class, and it's a pretty common convention
nowadays with like tailwind, XSS and a whole bunch of other, you know, CSC frameworks.
They use things called utility classes, and it's simply instead of, you know, going the whole the
I guess people might call it the old fashioned way, which is still pretty common.
And I think good being semantic about your team also should be semantic and CSC should be about, you
know, the AP appearance.
But we're kind of merging the two again nowadays and using utility classes.
So semantic would be like top menu.
This is like it's the top menu.
De Flex has no, you know, semantic value, but rather it's just the Flex is display flex.
We want that.
Presumably that literally writes the CSCS display flex and maybe a couple of other things.
So we can just add this utility class to anything we want to be display flex rather than going into
our CSC and selecting NAV main menu.
You know, another element blog.
You know this item, this item and then display flex.
It's just add this class.
It's just what we do nowadays, folks.
Flex dash rows are essentially we're kind of writing inline CC kind of kind of kind of not.
It's like a hybrid between the two Flex Row Navigation Top Dash menu, and then we justify content end
and.
So far, we have no content in here at all, we just have a bunch of markup with classes.
We're going to have a list item.
This one is going to have the class of menu item.
This is can bootstrap.
A tag.
This is going to be indexed HTML, whatever.
Of course, all this is going to change once into boot to WordPress.
This is the home link.
Another item we're going to have be the blog link came at the menu item.
Now what we're going to do here is we want this item to actually have some.
Like a dropdown, so if I were to show you the the final example, we want these links, but we want
like a submenu like that.
And another submenu in there.
Pretty cool right now in the final one here.
We don't actually have that.
But if you had if you added a submenu in the theme, then presumably it would do this, which looks
pretty cool.
All right.
Let's do that.
So we are home, we got blog.
Let's see here, let's.
Continuous keep adding or top level items first.
Is going to copy this one paced change this to widgets that age HTML because we're going to have a little
widgets age HTML page where we can cut up our widgets that we're going to use for elementary.
Widgets.
Contact.
Join.
Change up these links contacted H.M. and then joined an HMO.
Now this is actually going to go to an external link or whatever you want, but again, we're just hard
coding this stuff.
Everything here is going to change in terms of the links, the content, once it's into one system,
WordPress, because we want to be able to have these be dynamic right now, it's just static.
All right.
So we're going to top level items.
Let's see if they show up.
And they are looking very nice.
Oh, so far, so good.
That'll get fixed, don't worry.
All right, now, what we're going to do.
Is.
Well, let's make sure that everything is good here, so we've got our top nav.
Container row, I mean, six.
Main menu, OK, one thing I want to show you here is when we go to our final version here in our final,
the one we're working on, our student version, you can see our we've kind of got some semblance of
a layout up here, but we've got the list items, have the bullets and naturally they do because they're
lists, but we want to remove those bullets.
Now, as any of us who have coded, see us as before, you could just, you know, select the main menu
or the nav or anything like that and then just say List Unstyled, the list style unstyled.
But this is what's interesting about utility based CSIS is that we can kind of just.
Do that with a class that's already baked in to say bootstrap budget five is what we're using right
now, five point one or something.
If you go to the typography section of the documents, content typography, head over to lists and then
lists on styled.
We want to remove the default list style and the margin on the list items for the immediate children,
and we want it to just, you know, be unstyled.
Well, you can just do that by going list unstyled on the top on the unordered list.
So this is how we do that.
We just go to our Adam, our code editor.
And then on the URL in all the series of top menu deflects likes, row navigation.
What we would do here is we would just add the class list unstyled.
Save that and let's see what it does.
So now it's unstyled.
Well, we could also do is add list in line of on each of the items if you wish, and you can and that
will make it in line.
It already is in line, but we can add some padding or margin that way.
Right now, what do we have?
We have menu item.
So what we'll probably end up doing, we could just use XSS to actually.
Add that in our star system or you could type list in line.
And then I believe we also need to add list in line item to each of the items.
So we have menu item and then list in line item.
Now it's not as appealing, like our HTML starts to get pretty heavy on the CSCS utilities.
But again, that's kind of a standard nowadays.
Let's just see what that does.
So it gives us a little bit of space.
Now the reality is is I want a custom style, the width in between that.
Now I can use utility styles for spacing, padding and margin.
You can use utility styles for that.
If you're just to go to layout and then, you know, like utilities, let's see second margin like you
can literally add me three, you know, or.
What else do we have spacing utilities here?
And for margin p for padding, top bottom, TBE s for producing left, right and right to left stuff.
So it'd be something like s margin top zero margin top s one gives a spacer p x for padding on the x
axis, to which is the second one, so it gives extra space.
You can see how this kind of works.
We could do that, but we'll probably just do it in c ss.
So we're going to take out the list in line item bonanza in here and we'll we'll do that.
We'll do that in our in our CIUSSS afterwards.
So we have our items here.
Let's create the submenu.
So under blog, we're going to open up that tag right after the tag.
We're going to add another you'll hear our ordered list.
It's going to have the class of submenu sub dash menu and there's going to have a series of list items
in there.
So it's copy of list item.
Paste it with menu item.
OK, now what you need to do before we go any further here, let me just open this so you can see isolated
rather on this parent ally.
We need to add the class after menu item menu dash item Dash has dash children to bootstrap utility
class so that we can tell it that we have a submenu.
And a series of styles will happen in there, and I'm assuming JavaScript as well.
Now under submenu, we're going to add a couple more of these.
We're going to change this to put blog.
We'll put.
I think you honestly put whatever you want because we're going to we're not even going to really use
this in the initial theme unless you have some menu items.
So just whatever you want, you can go here, it's not going to make or break anything.
Now let's see.
What we're going to do is we're going to add on the last.
Item here, let's add one more.
Well, you know what, let's say single post is the first.
We will do widgets.
And then contacts will add one more item here, we'll call this one blog, and this one's also going
to have a submenu.
So if I isolate this, so you could see it.
So we've got a submenu here in this alley.
We've got another submenu here.
Like, here's a submenu.
We're going to add another submenu in this one.
So this menu item is going to have menu dash item.
Dash has Dash children in there.
We're going to add another URL.
It's going to have the class of sub dash menu.
And they're going to add three items in there, as well as just copy these ones.
We can rename them if you wish to.
You know, what's a blog?
If a queue and contact, OK, so there's that right there, all that mark up to create a submenu with
another submenu in another somehow.
Let's see if it did anything.
So you can see it in the markup.
We've got a menu item with a submenu and then a menu item in here with another set menu, and we'll
use JavaScript to tighten that up.
Right now, we're just going to create in the markup with some basic styling with the utility classes.
One another piece of markup that we need to add here is on our last join item join menu item.
This is kind of an interesting one because we want it to be like a we want it to just look a little
different.
It could be a button.
It could be style, could be different color.
We're just going to give it a class of special dash menu.
You know, we would do that now.
Another cool thing you could do in bootstrap with utility classes in just is just color it right in
the utility class.
So let's go back to the docks.
So here under the colors of utilities, you could just use this style.
So we got a text.
Primary secondary success danger is pretty standard.
We can also do dark body muted.
And then this is where it gets kind of interesting.
You be really specific.
If we're using SAS, we could do all this, but let's see if we have the option.
We can do text and you can use like numbers, I think.
Yeah, so text black fifty.
Or just text.
Black, I believe Pujari, so we have a few here.
So what if we just tried text dash warning and see if that changed?
Text dash warning, say that.
See if a change the color.
It did not.
I mean, let's inspect it and see why the color should be there, but I think it's because of the link.
So what we're going to do is what you do is you'd have the a head of the class of text dash warning.
You could do that.
And we go.
But because we have the CSI Class special menu, we'll use that later on to style it to have a special
color or special outline or something that's up to you.
There we go.
So there is our menu.
Let's maybe wrap.
Maybe this lesson up with the adding the mobile menu as well, because we're going to toggle to the
mobile menu.
Or we want to have the option of a mobile menu for our bootstrap or sorry, WordPress.
So outside.
Of our novelists, see here.
So just after Nav., I'm going to put a little space there, I'm going to add a button and that button.
Let's give it the type of button.
We don't need a name because we're not using it to submit a form.
We're going to add some classes nav bar dash open.
And then in here, we're going to add an eye.
But the class of mobile dash now Dash toddler flat icon.
Flight icon Dash menu, clean it up, save it.
See if it shows up at all.
So right there, that'll be our menu item.
And again, this is all looks very messy right now.
It'll get cleaned up once we start styling it a little bit more.
But that's we're going to use that element.
So that's in there.
And then after that, let's add our mobile menu.
Which we'll be using, I presume, in our WordPress theme to toggle.
So let's say, mobile menu, and then we're going to add the div with the class of mobile dash menu
inside there, div with a class of menu dash backdrop that's going to be empty div for, like our black
background.
Then we're going to have a div class of closed Dash BTN for close button inside of that.
We want to have an AI tag with the class of flat icon and then flat icon dash close.
That's the flat icon that we have, and then we're gonna have another nav.
The class of navigation and clearfix, we're just going to have that empty right now.
We're not going to hard code this because essentially once this is in, once we move this over to WordPress,
then we will use this markup for our theme to generate a mobile menu.
But right now, we just want the markup in there, and that should be good.
All right.
So that's our menu.
Of course, it doesn't look very good right now.
It's just kind of messy.
But this isn't what we're looking at.
We're looking at this.
So we've called it up kind of this framework for our top navigation, our menu submenus with the little
hamburger icon and the mobile menu.
Up next, we're going to keep going and we're going to start coding up the title banner subscriber kind
of start making it look a little more like this right here.
So we're going to get the markup going and then we're going to get the styles going.
All right.
That was good.
Take a little break.
You know, get some water.
Make a sandwich.